# Announcing Eventual - a serverless experience for building adaptable and maintainable event-driven systems

Today, we're excited to announce Eventual, an open source, code-first framework and purely "serverless" service for solving event-driven orchestration and choreography problems in the cloud. Eventual introduces 4 simple building blocks that encapsulate the mental model of event-driven systems and encode best practices around scalable operations, observability and test-driven development. Designed for the modern cloud, Eventual can be dropped in to an existing or new cloud application in minutes using your favorite Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) platform, all within your own cloud and security boundaries.

Our team has spent the past decade working at Amazon building large-scale services with AWS where we have had the pleasure of witnessing and participating in its evolution. Approximately 5 years ago, we started on a journey to improve upon the cloud developer experience that we felt was still too low-level and cumbersome. We attempted to bring application developers and infrastructure/devops closer together with Punchcard in 2018/2019 and (more recently) Functionless in 2022. Both projects embodied the same idea that the priority of developers is business logic and not infrastructure plumbing, but we made the mistake of taking a bottom-up approach that started with the infrastructure and embedded application logic within. Our new approach is to meet developers where they are by working backwards from application development paradigms and patterns are not required to abandon their current mental model and development processes.

While on our journey, we have noticed a recurring problem where developers struggle to translate business problems into cloud solutions. Infrastructure programming has advanced considerably in the past 5 years thanks to tooling such as the AWS CDK, SST, Pulumi and Terraform, but there still remains a large gap between mapping concepts in a business domain to infrastructure primitives. This layer between the business logic and infrastructure is often referred to by our friends from the Domain-Driven-Design (DDD) space as the "Domain Layer". Eventual aims to bridge this gap with tooling and services in the domain layer that can be integrated into and deployed using the infrastructure layer. In an ideal world, application developers should not have to understand the nitty-gritty of cloud infrastructure and should instead focus purely on their business domain. This is not to say that the infrastructure layer should be entirely hidden or deprecated - both must exist in harmony for scalable and sustainable software development.

(Diagram)

// Our philosophy is that developing quickly isn't only about getting started quickly, it's about consistent delivery and change.

// Eventual provides 4 simple building blocks that can be composed together into scalable and durable systems that are easy to observe, visualize, test and change over time.

// Approximately four years ago, we set out on a journey to take the next step in cloud development by combining application/business logic with infrastructure code. Our first attempt was Punchcard back in 2018, followed by Functionless in 2022, each with a different spin on bringing infrastructure and application developers together. Our idea has always been to empower application developers to focus on their business logic instead of low-level infrastructure primitives, but have since learned that our approach was coming from the wrong direction - our bias towards infrastructure drove us to start from the infrastructure and work our way up.
